Title: Hosting With GitHub Pages
Date: 2013-12-07
Slug: hosting-with-github-pages
Status: draft

This week, I made the switch to using GitHub as the hosting platform for my website and blog through [GitHub Pages](http://pages.github.com). This felt like a natural progression as I already used GitHub for version control for the source of my website. I initially thought the move would be confusing and time-consuming, but after the DNS changes propagated, everything was running fine with only a few minutes of downtime.

There are two different types of GitHub Pages: User (or Organization) Pages and Project Pages. As this is my personal website and blog, it is a User Page stored in the repository `iKevinY/iKevinY.github.io`. For User Pages, the hosted files must be located in the `master` branch of the repository. Since I didn't want to have separate repositories for the source of the website and for the generated files, I opted to make an orphaned branch named `src` which would contain the source files. While I thought this would be complicated, it turned out to be quite straightforward.

Within the root directory of my website's source, there is an `output` directory that the static site files generated by [Pelican](http://getpelican.com) go. Prior to using GitHub Pages, I had written a Bash script that would upload the `output/` directory to the web server using [rsync](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rsync). Obviously, this script had to be rewritten, as in order to use GitHub Pages, changes need to be pushed to a Git repository rather than being uploaded to a web server.

To accomplish this, there are two Git repository: one in the root directory of my website's source and one in the output directory. Both remotes are configured to push to `iKevinY/iKevinY.github.io`. The local repository in the root directory has the `output/` directory in its `.gitignore` file and commits to the `src` branch while the `output/` repository commits to the `master` branch. While they are technically part of the same remote repository, each local repository is completely separate from the other.

I created an SSH key so that I would not have to manually authenticate every time `git push` was run by `generate.sh`. (Also because I have two-factor authentication enabled on my GitHub account.) While this did not work initially, it turns out that I was using the wrong remote URL; the proper URL to use over SSH (which in retrospect is quite obvious) is `ssh://git@github.com:[username]/[repository].git`, rather than the HTTPS clone URL that is shown by default on the right side of the page when browsing the repository through GitHub.

The Git repository for the `output/` directory is only modified by `generate.sh`. Making use of [GitHub Flavoured Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown), the commit messages in the `master` branch contain links to the most recent commit in the `src` branch. When viewing the `master` branch on GitHub, the [SHA hashes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-1) automagically link to the corresponding commits in the `src` branch that generated the changes in the static site files, making it easy to determine what changes in the source files led to changes in the generated files.

To achieve this, my website generation script runs the following code after the `pelican` command generates the static site files.

```bash
cd $sourceDirectory
commitHash=$(git rev-parse HEAD)
cd $outputDirectory
git checkout master
git add -A
read -p "Enter extended commit message: " commitMessage
if [ -z "$commitMessage"]; then
	git commit -m "Generated by $commitHash"
else
	git commit -m "Generated by $commitHash" -m "$commitMessage"
fi
git push
```

The command `git rev-parse HEAD` returns the hash of the last commit in the Git repository's history, and is stored in the variable `$commitHash`. The directory is then changed to `output/` and `git checkout` is run to ensure the branch that changes will be committed to is the `master` branch (not that it *should* change, but this is more of a failsafe to ensure no problems occur). Any changes are then added via `git add -A`.

Following this, the script prompts for an extended commit message (what gets shown on GitHub after expanding the message). The first line of the commit message is "Generated by" followed by the hash of the last commit made in the `src` branch, and if an extended commit message is provided, the script will add it in. Finally, the commit is pushed to the `master` branch on GitHub.

All in all, this solution seems to work very well. I would highly recommend using GitHub Pages for static sites.